>> Kyle Simpson: All right.
So, we wanna do
something useful with our programs.
We don't just wanna save the number 42,
and then add something to it.
We wanna actually do things.
And the way we're gonna figure
out how to do things is,
we're gonna have to make decisions.
We're gonna have to decide If the user has
added some item to their shopping cart and
they wanna check on the Amazon.com or
whatever.
We're gonna have to decide
if that item is in memory.
I mean if that item is in inventory so
that we can sell it to them.
We're gonna have to make decisions.
And the primary that we're gonna make
a decision, there are other ways to do so.
But one of the primary way to make
a decision is called the if statement.
So here we see line 1.
That should look familiar.
We're making a var age = 39.
That's an assignment statement,
if you remember.
But line 3 is slightly different
because we have the if keyword, and
then we have a set of parentheses there.
That's what we call the if clause or
the test clause.
And then we have some stuff that we're
gonna do inside of those curly braces.
You see there's a curly brace
at the end of line 3 and
then another one at the end of line 5.
They kinda group together a set of
statements that would be kinda like
a paragraph In a novel
that you were reading.
We would group a set of sentences
together into a paragraph.
We group a set of statements
together with curly braces.
So we're saying if age is greater than or
equal to 18,
then we want to do everything that's
inside of these curly braces.
So we need to figure out what
the results of the operation age
greater than or equal to 18 is.
And remember, greater than or equal,
that's one of our comparison operators so
it's gonna go make a decision.
It's gonna go say, yes,
it is greater than or equal to 18,
in which case it gives us true or no it
isn't, in which case it gives us false.
And the if statement then says,
I'm only gonna do the work inside of
the curly braces, If I got a true back.
That’s how we make a decision.
Now it’s sometimes the case that we only
want to do one thing if some condition
like this is true.
We want to make a decision and
then do something.
But a lot of times, it’s like we’ve got
to choose between two different things.
We either need to do this or
we need to do that.
And that's a slightly different variation
on the if statement form called
the if else.
So if, looks exactly the same,
lines one through three, you see the if.
You see an expression there,
which in this case is a function call.
That's gonna either return
something that looks like true, or
something that looks like false.
If it returns as true,
then we're gonna do the stuff on line two.
But if it returned as false, immediately
we're gonna skip over that stuff and
go right to the else clause.
And the else clause then executes only if
the test clause returned false.
So now you see the basic building
blocks for making decisions.
We can either do something or
not do anything at all.
Or in this case, as we see in
this slide we can do one thing or
do another thing depending
upon some condition.
And you can chain these things.
You can nest these and
put these things together.
Kind of like when you build with legos.
You can put all of these pieces together
and you start to build up more and
more complex things in your application.
Okay, let's test out how
that if L stuff works.
Here, I've changed the code
just a little bit.
Instead of calling functions,
I'm using a Boolean variable here.
But if I run this code,
you're going to see because
enrolled as is enrolled is true.
It's going to take the class.
But if we change that to false,
now all of a sudden it's gonna print
a different message which is enroll first.